Ok, so plan alter the size of the data that the heaton som intakes was a dismal failure - there's something I'm not understanding in the math that's throwing up errors - so plan downsampling bridge class to produce valid inputs is a go.

Today, I'll do the analysis of how downsampling would work and try and find how to change heaton's grid from letters to numbers

*smacks self* I don't need to change heaton's network - that's exactly the advantage of an som, that I don't need to re-adjust the parameters depending on the dataset in this case! I just need to create the format to read the data and match the numbers with their labels and downsample them correctly

...and here's where we get complicated again. I THINK I could figure out exactly how to interpret the data so that it downsamples correctly, but I don't fully understand the format it's encoded in. Hmmm....

after another brief bit of analysis, I can confirm a bit about the way the code I'm using interprets MNIST. It converts the unsigned bits streamed into 1's and 0's based on Otsu's threshold, then creates 28x28 strings of bytes... that's it. It creates 28 bytes each with 28 bits i'm an idiot that's not how bytes work

got it this time. the copyrange method takes a section of the total datastream using a loop to get an image and label for everything, with the 16 character OFFSET for magic number, size of image and number of images

ok, I have part 1 - a program set to take in and interpret the MNIST data - and part 3 - the som that can take in the numbers and learn to organize - but not the middle bit, a way to downsample the 28x28 images I'll receive from the MNIST dataset. There's two possibilities here. Plan A, which I'm attempting now, is to try and hunt down the root of the downsampling error that occurs when I try and manually alter the parameters of the som. Plan B is to default to attempting a downsampling class that can transform a 28x28 to a 5x7 - not something I have great hopes for in terms of accuracy. 

Got it - heaton hardcoded two variables so they returned errors when I attempted to adjust the downsampling range. I think a 28x28 will take too long to train, but downsampling a 28x28 to a 7x7 is far simpler than to a 5x7.



